# HEASoft-Code
Modular Pipeline created to run NICER data through HEASoft.

HEASoft + NICER tools must be installed and on PATH for program to run.

# Config Parameters
star_name: Name of the target you wish to analyse.
orbital_period: Orbital Period of object (in days).
reference_epoch: Phase-zero epoch (T0) in MJD (e.g. Tasc or inferior conjunction from literature)
working_dir: Directory for program to operate in. Use "working" for directory at which the .py file is located, or paste the directory path.
run_nicer_l3: "true" if you wish to run nicerl3 rather than nicerl2 + XSELECT
ObsID_to_exclude: Any specific ObsID you wish to avoid. Example - ["0060010101","0060010102"].
ObsID_specifically_chosen: Any specific ObsID you wish to use, will download only those you inputted. Example - ["0060010101","0060010102"].
number_of_datasets: Determines how many datasets the program will download of your target. If the number of available datasets is below the value inputted, it will continue with only those available.
lower_energy_limit: The lower limit of the energy cut-off, in PI. (1PI = 0.01keV).
upper_energy_limit: The upper limit of the energy cut-off, in PI. (1PI = 0.01keV).
bins: The number of bins used for any binned plot.
epoch_range: The range (in days) allowed between different epochs for them to be stacked together.
auto_resolve: "true" if you wish for the program to backtrack and process any missing prerequisites. Example - if the required files for barycorr are not present, the program will automatically run process_l2, even if it is set to false.
reprocess: "true" if you wish for all files (of which their process is set to "true") to be regenerated, even if they are existing.
flare_filtering: "true" to apply simple 3σ clipping on count rate to flag and remove outliers (toy model flare filtering).

### run_steps (set each to "true" or "false"):
  download: Downloads datasets based on target selection rules.
  process_l2: Runs nicerl2 processing.
  barycorr: Runs barycentering corrections on data produced by process_l2. Workflow of this can be found in CMD_files/cmd_bary_curve.xco.
  barycurve: Extracts the light curve from the data generated by barycorr. 
  statistics: Performs basic statistical analysis on data, producing uncertainties used in plots.
  time_plot: Produces time-domain plot of each ObsID
  unbinned_plot: Produces an unbinned, phase-folded plot of each ObsID.
  binned_plot: Produces a binned, phase-folded plot of each ObsID, based on the number of bins requested in "bins".
  stacked_plot: Stacks each binned plot which meets the epoch requirements, set by "epoch_range", into individual stacked plots.



This program was developed by Caden Phillips, Third Year MPhys Astrophysics Student, University of Liverpool.
